addecho                    Man Page                   addecho 


NAME
    addecho - add echo to mono wav sound file

SYNOPSIS
	addecho [-d num] [-v num] [sourcewav file] [destwav file]


DESCRIPTION
	The addecho utility creates an echo in a provided mono wav sound file by mixing the original sound with a copy of itself.

	This utility can handle large sound files through using an echo buffer to forego loading two copies of the sourcewav file into memory.
	The echo buffer contains a number of volume scaled samples of the original sound. The factor by which the sounds in the echo 
	buffer are scaled is specified by the -v parameter. The size of the echo buffer is specified by the -d parameter. 
	 
	The output of the utility is written in three stages. In the first [-d] samples of the original sound, the echo buffer is
	not used and the samples of the original sound are written to the output sound. In the remaining samples of the original sound 
	the written samples are obtained by adding the original sound samples to the scaled up samples in the echo buffer. Next, when 
	there are no more samples of the original sound we write 0 samples, the number of which is determined by the difference between -d 
	and the number of samples in the original sound. Finally, we write the rest of the samples in the echo buffer to the output sound.

	The following options are available:
		
	-d 	Sample delay size, this determines the size of the echo buffer and also the delay in our output audio, the default value is 8000.
	-v 	Volume scale factor, this determines the factor by which we scale samples in the echo buffer which mix into
		our original sample. This option determines the volume of the echo. The default value is 4.

RETURN VALUES
     addecho returns an exit value 0 if the task is completed successfully, and 1 if an error or issue is encountered.

EXAMPLES
     	./addecho short.wav short_new.wav
	This produces a new wav file called short_new.wav an echo that is delayed by 8000 samples and volume scaled by a factor of 4.

		./addecho -d 20000 -v 2 door.wav door_20000_2.wav
	This produces a new wav file door_20000_2.wav with an echo that is delayed by 20000 samples and volume scaled by a factor of 2.


WARNINGS
	The -v and -d parameters do not accept negative values because the volume cannot be scaled to a negative value and
	the audio cannot be delayed by negative samples.

	This utility does not accept more than 2 files as arguments. If more than 2 files, namely the sourcewav and destwav files are
	specified then the program will not execute.
	

BUGS
	This program is extensively tested and bug-free.
